Kubernetes article (#16531)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/beyond-yaml-kubernetes-2026-automation-era/index.md

The article [*Kubernetes Best Practices I Wish I Had Known Before*](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/kubernetes-best-practices-i-wish-i-had-known-before/) highlights a key challenge: relying solely on YAML as the source of truth for Kubernetes is no longer sustainable. Clusters are dynamic, environments multiply, and static YAML files cannot keep up with the complexity of modern infrastructure.

Teams across disciplines face similar challenges:

- Multi-cluster and hybrid-cloud sprawl
- Inefficient manual configuration and drift
- Lack of policy enforcement and governance at scale
- Secrets scattered across systems

Pulumi addresses these challenges by introducing **general-purpose programming languages** such as TypeScript, Python, Go, C#, and Java into Kubernetes management. This approach enables teams to define, test, and share reusable infrastructure code, bridging the gap between declarative manifests and modern software engineering practices.

{{< youtube "Q8WKLq-v_6k?rel=0" >}}

Learn more: [Pulumi Kubernetes documentation](https://www.pulumi.com/docs/iac/clouds/kubernetes/)

## The 2026 Convergence of AI, Platforms, and Policy in Kubernetes

> The [CNCF State of Cloud Native Development Q3 2025](https://www.cncf.io/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/cncf_report_stateofcloud_111025a.pdf) report shows that more than half of DevOps professionals and nearly a third of all developers now identify as cloud native. Adoption of hybrid and multi-cloud architectures continues to grow, while AI and ML workloads are becoming first-class citizens in Kubernetes environments. The report notes that over 40% of ML and AI developers are building or deploying on cloud-native infrastructure, confirming that Kubernetes has become the foundation for intelligent, scalable systems.

Reviewer: **Source verification correction**
```suggestion
The [CNCF State of Cloud Native Development Q3 2025](https://www.cncf.io/wp-content/uploads/2025/11/cncf_report_stateofcloud_111025a.pdf) report shows that more than half of DevOps professionals and nearly a third of all developers now identify as cloud native. Adoption of hybrid and multi-cloud architectures continues to grow, while AI and ML workloads are becoming first-class citizens in Kubernetes environments. The report notes that 41% of professional ML and AI developers are cloud native, confirming that Kubernetes has become a foundational technology for building intelligent, scalable systems.
```

**Changes for accuracy:**
- "over 40%" → "41%" (exact statistic, page 7)
- "building or deploying on cloud-native infrastructure" → "are cloud native" (matches report's precise terminology)
- Added "professional" qualifier (as specified in source)
- "foundation for" → "foundational technology for" (cleaner phrasing)

**Why this matters:** The report defines "cloud native developers" as those who USE multiple cloud native technologies (containers, Kubernetes, service meshes, etc.), not just those deploying TO cloud-native infrastructure. This distinction is important for technical accuracy with our enterprise audience.

**Source:** CNCF State of Cloud Native Development Q3 2025, page 7, Key Insights section
